# loc_share

## Generating and Viewing Documentation

Documentation for this project is generated using the Dokka tool.
To generate the documentation again, run the following command in the terminal in the root directory of your project:

```bash
./gradlew dokkaHtml # Format: HTML. Generates documentation index.html in the build/dokka/html folder.
```

```bash
./gradlew dokkaJavadoc # Format: Javadoc. Generates documentation index.html in the build/dokka/javadoc folder.
```

```bash
./gradlew dokkaGfm # Format: Markdown. Generates documentation index.md in the build/dokka/gfm folder.
```

```bash
./gradlew dokkaJekyll # Format: Jekyll Markdown. Generates documentation index.md in the build/dokka/jekyll folder.
```

## Configuration

To configure the base URL for making requests:
1. Open the `build.gradle.kts` file.
2. Locate the `buildTypes` block.
3. Inside the `buildTypes` section, define settings for both `release` and `debug` builds.
   For each build type, specify the `BASE_URL` for the corresponding environment.

For example, for the `release` build, you would specify the production base URL, while for the
`debug` build, you might use a local or development server URL.

In the root directory of your Android project, you need to create a file named `local.properties`.
Within this file, you should specify the directory path where your Android SDK is located using
the `sdk.dir` property. For example: `sdk.dir=/home/android/sdk`.

This allows Android Studio to locate the Android SDK for your project. However, it's essential
to note that this file is automatically generated by Android Studio, and manual modifications are
discouraged because they may be overwritten during the next project sync.

## Build and Run

### Build
1. Open the terminal in the root directory of your project.
2. Build the project using the Gradle wrapper with the command `./gradlew assembleDebug` for debugging
   version or `./gradlew assembleRelease` for release version.
3. After the build completes, you'll find the .apk files in the `app/build/outputs/apk/debug`
   directory (for the debug version) or `app/build/outputs/apk/release` directory
   (for the release version) inside your project. Alternatively, you can use `./gradlew build`
   to build the entire project, including all configurations, tests, and other build tasks.

Once you've obtained the APK file, you can install it on your Android device or run it in an emulator.

### Run with Android Studio (Preferred):

To run the project using Android Studio, you have two options:

1. **Run Directly on Emulator or Device:** (Preferred)
    - Ensure your emulator or Android device is connected and recognized by Android Studio.
    - Click on the "Run" button (green triangle) located in the toolbar.
    - Choose your target device or emulator from the list provided.
    - Android Studio will then build your project, install the APK on the selected device or
      emulator, and launch the application automatically.

2. **Build and Manually Run the APK:**
    - Click on the "Build" menu in Android Studio.
    - Select "Build Bundle(s) / APK(s)" and then choose "Build APK(s)".
    - After the build process completes, navigate to the APK file location, usually located in
      `app/build/outputs/apk/debug` for the debug version or `app/build/outputs/apk/release`
      for the release version.
    - Transfer the APK file to your Android device, if necessary, and then manually install
      it by opening the APK file on your device.

### Run without Android Studio:

To run the project without Android Studio, follow these steps:

1. **Build and Manually Run the APK:**
    - After building the project using the Gradle wrapper
      (`./gradlew assembleDebug` or `./gradlew assembleRelease`), locate the generated APK file
      in the `app/build/outputs/apk/debug` directory for the debug version or
      `app/build/outputs/apk/release` directory for the release version.
    - Connect your Android device to your computer using a USB cable.
    - Transfer the APK file from your computer to your Android device.
    - On your Android device, navigate to the location where you transferred the APK file.
    - If necessary, ensure that your device is in "Developer mode" and has USB debugging enabled.
      You may need to grant permission to install applications from unknown sources.
    - Tap on the APK file to start the installation process.
    - Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the installation.

## Running Tests

To run the tests for this project, use Gradle's test task. Navigate to the root directory of your project in the
terminal and execute the following command:

```bash
./gradlew test
```

This command will execute all tests in the project and provide feedback on their success or failure.

## Licence

The license can be found in the file `licence.txt`.